So welcome back, guys.
So let us continue our discussion with Jill Thread's, so now the question arises that why do we have
to stir things up a little if we are accomplishing the same goal before by traditional link list?
Right.
This is the obvious question that must be crossing your mind.
So let us discuss the benefit of Jill Tred linked list or what traditional list?
Let us see the problem with traditional link list.
This problem applies to traditional trees, traditional cues or any other data structure that you could
think of.
So let us continue with our favorite structure called employee, so let us say that we have a pointer
to this employee object.
Now, you need to insert this employee object into three doubly linked list with your application is
maintaining.
So let us assume that your application maintains three doubly linked list.
The first unrelentless is to maintain the records of employees of an organization.
The second linked list that your application maintains is a link list of all the employees who are above
manager level.
And the third link lists that your application maintains is the linked list, which stores the record
of all employees whose promotions are due.
Now, let us say that our favorite object that we have in our application qualifiers, all the three
criteria, therefore we need to insert our employee object into all these three doubly linked list,
which is being maintained by our application.
So let us try to visualize the situation with the help of a diagram on the next slide.
So suppose your application is using traditional, doubly linked list, so let us see that how the situation
would look like.
So we have our favorite employee object who satisfies all the three criteria.
And and this employee object needs to be present in all the three doubly linked list, which is being
maintained by our application.
So suppose you have a list L1 and there is some node in the list L1 which distorts the pointer to this
object.
Right.
So remember, we are discussing the case when an application is making use of traditional link list.
We are not discussing Gyul threats in this case.
Similarly, the secondary link is that your application maintains also have a inkless node, which is
of course a reference to the object impacts.
Right.
And the same goes with the third link list, which is being maintained by the application.
So you can see that because this object satisfies all the three criteria, as all the three linked list
has to have a reference to point to this object.
Now, obviously, in order to insert the same object into three different linked list, you need to
allocate node for each linked list.
It means that you need to invoke three Matlock's in order to insert this object into three list.
Right.
So this is first thing that you need to insert as many blogs as there are a number of linked list which
needs to reference to the object.
Now, consider the situation, suppose the employee alone leaves the company and therefore your application
need to remove his records from all the linked lists.
Now, in this situation, you have three DoubleLine list, right, so your application needs to iterate
over all the three doubly linked list, find the node which points to the object, Aroon, and delete
that particular node from the list.
Right.
And you have to do this exercise for all the list which registers the reference to the object.
Once you unreferenced the object from all the list, then only you can actually free the object, right?
So now I ask you the question, what is the time complexity to delete this object from your application
database?
The time complexity is out of and into three times because you have to e-trade or all the doubly linked
list to unreferenced the object.
And once you unreferenced the object from all the URLs, then only you destroy the object permanently
from your application.
So you have to iterate over all the link list in order to unreferenced this object.
And therefore the time complexity is ottenhoff and into three times.
It means the deletion of the object is an expensive operation.
Now, let us try to visualize the same scenario using gel threads and let us see that how we are benefited
if we had used gel threads instead of traditional booklist.